Documentation using gh-pages (#57)
open-energy-transition/form-energy-storage: documentation/01-installation.md

# Installation

> (This is a copy of PyPSA-Eur installation with minor changes)

Reviewer: Add a reference

conda activate pypsa-eur
```

## Install a Solver

PyPSA passes the PyPSA-Eur network model to an external solver for performing the optimisation. PyPSA is known to work with the free software

- [HiGHS](https://highs.dev/)
- [Cbc](https://projects.coin-or.org/Cbc#DownloadandInstall)
- [GLPK](https://www.gnu.org/software/glpk/)
- ([WinGLKP](http://winglpk.sourceforge.net/))
- [SCIP](https://scipopt.github.io/PySCIPOpt/docs/html/index.html)

and the non-free, commercial software (for some of which free academic licenses are available)

- [Gurobi](https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/quickstart.html)
- [CPLEX](https://www.ibm.com/products/ilog-cplex-optimization-studio)
- [FICO Xpress Solver](https://www.fico.com/de/products/fico-xpress-solver)

For installation instructions of these solvers for your operating system, follow the links above. Commercial solvers such as Gurobi and CPLEX currently significantly outperform open-source solvers for large-scale problems, and it might be the case that you can only retrieve solutions by using a commercial solver. Nevertheless, you can still use open-source solvers for smaller problems.

> [Instructions how to install a solver in the documentation of PyPSA](https://pypsa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#getting-a-solver-for-linear-optimisation)

Reviewer: Make a sentence of this

Author: The line on Instructions how to install a solver in the documentation of PyPSA is only used to link with the pypsa documentation. The content is very similar to the paragraphs above and therefore redundant. I think I'll just remove it

# Installation

The installation process is a modified version of [PyPSA-Eur Installation](https://pypsa-eur.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html) instruction.

## Fork and Clone the Repository

> In the **Create a new fork** pop-up menu, shown in the figure below, deselect the default Copy the `main` branch only option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make modifications to the existing code base, it is necessary to create your own fork of this repository. In the **Create a new fork** pop-up menu, shown in the figure below, deselect the default 'Copy the `main` branch only' option.
```

Reviewer 2: Is it `main`or `master`?

Author: You're right. Its `master`

:::{admonition} Fork this repository!
:class: tip

![fork option](img/fork_option.png)

:::

> The goal is to keep two branches: `gh-pages`, which is necessary for rebuilding this website, and `feature/calibrated-run`, which is required for generating the calibrated runs for the year 2023.

Reviewer 2: Once we've cleaned up the branches this sentence should be rather like this.
```suggestion
The repository consists of two additional branches outside of the `master` branch which contains the main code base for the study: `gh-pages`, which is necessary for rebuilding this documentation website, and `feature/calibrated-run`, which is required for generating the calibrated runs for the year 2023.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, do we not want to merge gh-pages into the master? Or is it necessary to keep this separate?

Author: It must be seperated. gh-pages only contains html files to build the website

conda activate pypsa-eur
```

:::

## Install a Solver

PyPSA passes the PyPSA-Eur network model to an external solver for performing the optimisation. PyPSA is known to work with the free software

- [HiGHS](https://highs.dev/)
- [Cbc](https://projects.coin-or.org/Cbc#DownloadandInstall)
- [GLPK](https://www.gnu.org/software/glpk/)
- ([WinGLKP](http://winglpk.sourceforge.net/))
- [SCIP](https://scipopt.github.io/PySCIPOpt/docs/html/index.html)

and the non-free, commercial software (for some of which free academic licenses are available)

- [Gurobi](https://www.gurobi.com/documentation/quickstart.html)
- [CPLEX](https://www.ibm.com/products/ilog-cplex-optimization-studio)
- [FICO Xpress Solver](https://www.fico.com/de/products/fico-xpress-solver)

For installation instructions of these solvers for your operating system, follow the links above. Commercial solvers such as Gurobi and CPLEX currently significantly outperform open-source solvers for large-scale problems, and it might be the case that you can only retrieve solutions by using a commercial solver. Nevertheless, you can still use open-source solvers for smaller problems.

> [Instructions how to install a solver in the documentation of PyPSA](https://pypsa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation.html#getting-a-solver-for-linear-optimisation)

Author: ```suggestion
```
